STELLAZINE

Publication Information:
Page:

XTE

A late word from Virgin Records is that Barry Andrews has left XTC to persue a solo career. The band remains together, and the split was said to be amicable.

This interview was done in the dining room of the Gramercy Park Hotel. The resturant was not happy that we were there, and proceeded to make it difficult for us. Barry and I had to repeatedly tell the waiters what we wanted. It made for a bit of an uncomfortable atmosphere. But we survived.
Barry has an extremely dry sense of humor, which was well served admist the frowning waiters.

SS

[image]

Photo Credit Roy Esmonde

S:How long have you been playing together?
B:This line-up about two years
S:Where are you from?
B:We're all from Swindon. I was born in London, but moved to Swindon. The others are born and bred.
S:Is that near London?
B:It's 80 miles down the motorway. It's an appalling little town known only for railways. I thought you'd know that. It's like a jke in the music papers that we come from Swindon. It's a notoriously un-hip place to come from.
S:Doesn't everyone come from un-hip places and migrate to hip places? 
B:Sometimes. That's why we didnt use to cut it with the London music industry, 'cause we were up from the country.
S:Did Did you choose whhat hotel you were going to stay at, or did they just put you here?
B:This is quite good actually, though you wouldn't guess it.
S:This is for the professional hotel person, I think.
B:That's what we are.
S:Do you get tired of being on the road?
B:Yeah, I do. Exept when there's novelty to sustain it, like there is in America, 'cause we've never been here before. Same old clubs, do the same old things night after night can be tiring. It's virtually exhausting. 
S:WHat would you rather do? Would you rather just record and then play certain dates, as opposed to....
B: No, no. I do like gigging when it's done in the right way, I think. But when you just do loads and loads of dates all bound together, on top of each other--which is the only way really you can make it pay, make it pay for itself.....
S:So you wake up and you don't exactly know where you are...
B:You wake up in the night and think youre in a different city..
S:So you do one night stands?
B:Yeah, they're all one night.
S:Youve been doing that for two years?
B:On and off..making albums.
S:DO you like doing that?
B:I like bits of that. All things considered it's not a bad job at all...Beats the shit out of factories.
S:More creativity.
B:To a degree.
S:It seems Brittish bands have less trouble being signed than American bands.
B:There was a big spate of internet around about the time we got signed..They were signing anything that mved the year before last.
S:Did you want to sign?
B:Oh yeah. Anyway we could make money out of it. Enough to live on anyway.
S:Has Virgin treated you well? Given you what you wanted?
B:Always. They're as good as they can be. The only times we have arguments, is when we can't agree between the 4 of us what to do. Then the record company more or less takes over and does the most commerically viable thing they can do under the circumstances.
S:The company is supporting you on this tour?
B:They're paying for it.
S:That's nice of them.
B:Foolhearty of 'em.
S:Have your records done well?
B:No, they've bombed out.
S:How do you feel about that?
B:A bit desperate.
S:Is it bad publicity? Is it that the music isn't accessible for
S:So you think it's only music like the Ramones, which is so blatent, so clear, That people have something to grab on to?
B:Pop music is about that.
S:You define yourself as a pop band
B:Yeah. I don't see us as anything more. I think it's quite a noble call. Being a pop band. 
(Here I am introduced to Colin Moulding, bass player....Barry comments on
the waiters:"This place is really fascist...")
S:But if all music was Blondie and the Ramones it would be boring. Your music balances that.
B:I don't think it should all be like that. On the other hand, to do that unsuccessfully is a failure, isn't it. And to try and not do that and yet still not come up aith anything atristically valid is a failure as well.
S:You don't want to be a band with a cult following?
B:I don't see any percentage in that at all, although there is a school of thought that courts that.
S:I liked your music because it was visual. It brought to mind really broad ideas. It gave me feelings of things that I'd seen before. Like being in the subway station....Maybe more emotional images.
B:That's good. That's nice to know. If we can only harness this now......I'd really like to be able to so that. To create such strong visual thing so that you could actually depict something and just thrust it upon people. So if you're singing a sing about lonliness, you could actually make the people lonley. That would be great. You can do it roughly,
We've done things...Like "Battery Brides". That's super tough. An extent conveys the content. ANd if you could do that to the power of three.....I could clean up.
S:It seems to me you take melodie apart. Take each sounc apart and fit it back together again. Even with the vocals. I wasn't hearing the vocals as words as much as sounds that were fitting together with the rest of the instruments.
But you're dealing with an audience which is so conditioned with all kinds of junk music. It's hard for people to discriminate sometimes.
B:You shouldn't need an educated audience. I don't see rock and roll as about having an educated audience anymore than you need to be educated to understand a road accident. It should just be there, and be so spesific, that it's no open to any misinterpretation.
S:I wonder if that's possible. Theres such a difference between what music is out there and what we're allowed to hear.
B:I was thinking about that while getting visas for Canada. Just to be allowed to do that, you've got to tell them all these things. It makes you think of this hugh, gargantuan force that could be turned against you, should you ever really threaten it. They're so powerful they can command you to do this just to be allowed into the country. SO what if you made them really angry?
S:Knock you off.....You all have colds. Did you get them here?
C:Yeah
B:I brought mine over. It's on import. There's harrassment here (from the waiters). Like I'm a criminal. 
C:They dont really like us. I mean they do, But not coming in down here (the resturant). They want you to keep in your room.
B:They alwasy stick us in obscure wings. They put us in a hotel in Scarborough once where they were still building it! It's a great hotel; all chandeliers, a golden staircase. The clerk said: "Oh, you're in 148." We go up and up and up and you're in some wing, and the workmen are still in thre! Sawing and hammering....
This is where we get all misty-eyed about our past.
S:How old are you?
C:23. He's 22. Terry's 23 and Andys 25.
S:ARe you self-taught musicians?
C:Well, I supposedly had this year of tutoring from this old bloke. He's sort of a bit decrepit, he's like 65. He used teach me songs like "Bill Bailey".
S:Nothing you could use. Did you learn off records?
C:Yeah. He never used to let me turn the amp up. Low volume 'cause the rest of his family were in the other room. It's really inhibiting. I blew that after a year. Couldn't stand the low volume.
S:Do you have a rehearsal studio?
C:WE have a cellar. Our managers' club. Wecan't play too loud because of the Chinese resturant next door.
B:Delicate politics down in the cellar., 'cause you mustn't get in the way of the beer when it comes in. There's nowhere else to practice. That's something about the system that groups need to work on. Rehearsals and early gigs.
S:SO what are the crowds like here in comparison to Brittain?
B:Really polite.
S:Do you like that?
B:No, not really. I like the seething mass of pogoers.
S:They wouldn't let you in the front of the stage at CBCG's.
C:The wouldn't?
S:No. They even only let you go one by one to the bathroom down the hall
C:We thought we were all washed up.
B:I hadn't realized that.
S:SO you got the feeling no one liked you?
B:It would be easy to runaway with that impression.
C:I wonder if we could do something about that tonight.
S:There were people behind me beating out the rhythm on my head. They were the seething masses being held behind the reserved seating. 
C:I couldn't believe it when the waitress started hanging "Reserved" signs on the tables.
S:WHo writes the music?
C:We all do, apart from Terry (drummer). Andy's still the predominant writer. I'm not so far behind.
B:And I'm in the opressed minority.
S:WHat do you want to do? Recording...gigging...
C:Probably not do another album for a hell of a long time. We've done two albums, and I thought we crammed a hell of alot in. I think we can afford to wait.
S:Are you happy with the albums?
C:Yeah.
B:I'm not really. I think the production could have been alot bettwe. 
S:Did you pick producers?
B:Yeah. We picked blind really. The mysteries of the 24 track....
C:The thing is we wanted to have our own way. And with a producer like John Lackie it's easy to get your way. 
B:But you have to be strong as a producer. What we did with John.......he was the line of least resistance. He let us do what we wanted. He doesn't get in the way, like a fifth member of the group, you know? It's all very polite. And it comes out very polite. You can hear it on both the albums. If you compare that with the live sound.
S:Live sounds alot better.
B:I think it's alot better.
C:Everybody says to me it's alot better. Ninety-five per cent of the people say you're much better live th le say you're much better live than you are on record.
S:You're not talked about as much as Brittish bands like the Clash, Buzzcocks...Is it your music? You're popularity?
B:Part of it's popularity. We're less popular than any of these groups. because we never managed any punk image. Some of them did because they were, & some of them did just to do it. We were pretty naive.
We're basically a rock group. That's about it. Therefore we're not affected one way or another by the popularity or unpopularity of new wave people. 
S:There are more bands over here that I find similar to you than Brittish bands I can think of.
C:Myabe that's why we're getting accepted over here. I was suprised how popular we've been.
B:Bob Geldorf (Boomtown Rats) ripped us off on a single:"Like Clackwork." He admists he just popped it straight off of us.
S:You don't think immitation is the sincerest form of flattery?
B:Not if he get's all the royalties & we don't. Their are lots of copyists, but none with the same spirit. When we are on stage, There's no one to touch us doing that sort of thing. But on records it's not the same. 
S:Have you thought of doing live recordings?
B:Yeah, we;ve thought of that, but it would have to be done in the right way.
S:What kind of music do you listen to?
B:I listen to alot of classical music and reggae, and whatever touches my

CONTINUED ON PAGE 16

CUT ME OUT

BEATLE BOOTS

BABY LEATHERS

GIRL WATCHERS

SKY KING HABERDASHERY PIKE PLACE MARKET SEATTLE

PAGE 12