STELLAZINE

Publication Information:
Page: 7

LAURA DAVI

PHOTO JOE STEVENS

I wanted to interview Laura after hearing Student Teachers at CBGB's, and being impressed with her drumming. Laura is a stand-out destined to make a name for herself.
The interview was conducted at an apartment in Manhattan which Laura shares with Jimmy "The Housepainter Destri. We talked in the living room/bedroom, amid a ringing telephone and Laura's sister. The one window on the room had a teriffic view of the city.......
SS

S:How long have you been playing drums?
L:A year.
S:That's all?
L:Year, only a year. I took lessons for about four or five months and then I stopped. We started playing alot more, having alot of gigs. It taes money, so I never got around to picking up lessons again.
 So I took them for a few months, then just played along by myself, and watched other drummers, and picked up tips from friends of mine. I still have alot to learn.
S:How old are you?
L:17. We're a very young band.
S:I could tell.
L:I just turned 17 in December.
S:Were you instrumental in forming the band?
L:Yeah, well sort of. It all started with my keyboard player, Bill, my bass player and myslef who hada band at one time. But it was just an idea. I didn't play drums at the time, and she hadn't played bass, but we liked the idea of getting a band together..We talked about it for about a year..Then my keyboard player became very good friends with the singer, David. David said he had this guitarist friend, and brought him along. We had a photo session even before we rehearsed, 'cause we all liked the way the other looked.
S:What's the name of your guitarist?
L:Phillip Shelley. We had this photo session...We knew nothing! Wewere just forming this band. Nobody knew what they wanted to do. We finally got our first rehearsal together. Slowly things started getting along, and we played our first gig at my high school.
S:Which one?
L:It's Friend's Seminary on E. 16th..It's a private H.S. A joke, but we played a concert just to get the feel of playing in front of people. Our friends The Blessed came to see us...They liked us, and were playing the next Sunday as Max's and said: "Why don't you open for us?"
So we went to Max's (we knew the booking agent), and said:"Why don'cha let us do this?" She said fine. We didn't get billed or anything. It was like an audition for the club. They really liked us so we got another gig there a couple of weeks later. It started like that.
It was slow at first at the beginning, but then we found ouselves playing three or four gigs amonth. Things started going very fast.
Then we had a gig at Max's. Bill came up and said, Jimmy Destri wants to take us into the studio. What do you think?" I said sure. We were all really excited. He came to lots of rehearsals and went over the songs, & we recorded in the middle of last July. Recorded our single, which isn't out yet,but should be soon.
S:What songs?
L:"Christmas Weather" and "The Quake"
S:"The Quake" seems to be a popular song.
L:Yeah, that's the one Bill and I write. The major songwriters are Bill & Phillip, which is strange, 'cause they write in completely differnt ways
S:Was that your drumkit you used at CB's?
L:No. It was Jane's of the Erasers. It is an incredible drum kit. A vintage Pearl.
S:It was miked well.
JD:Thank you.
S:Yeah, my friend really liked the
sound of the tom-toms.
JD:Thanks.
L:It's a beutiful set. Her boyfriend bought it for her.
S:We should all be so lucky.
L:Yeah, we shoud have.....
JD:Boyfriends who buy drum sets!
S:DO you have your own kit?
L:Sort of. I'm loosing it rapidly. I bought a couple of drums from the Mumps drummer. Used drums 'cause I had no money. I bought a snare and two toms and a bass drum--all for $200...Then we got into a fight and he took them back. I's all ridiculous. But usually I just borrow. Alot of people are very generous in lending me their stuff. If you're careful and responsible.
S:What made you decide to learn drums.
L:The great question...Once I said to a friend I have THree reasons. One, I like to sweat. Two, Blondies drummer Clen who is an amazing drummer. I really look up to him. I'd just like to play like that. I had another reason-it's an obscure reason, but whenever I was listening to a song I would speciffically listen to the beat. Of course its the beat that captures you. But it came consious to me...Not just listening to the beat and dancing, but I was ignoring the gutars and keyboards and voices and stuff. It became extremely consious to me, and I went zing!
I just feel there should be more female drummers. If you feel you can handel it.
S:I noticed with your playing that you really keep the beat of the song going. I had the feeling that if you weren't playing the rest of it would fall apart.
L:(Laughter)Yeah, I get that reaction alot.
S:You're also really strong in directing the music, which is something not many drummers do.
L:Oh thank you. (Self-consious, nervous laughter). I don't even know of Im consious of that. I don't know. I get real nervous, 'cause I know that whenever we do badley in a song I know that I've done badly. I just automatically assume it's me all the way. If the whole song falls apart I know its been me. I can just feel it.
But I don't go out there and say...
"I'm gonna direct this song!" I guess it just happens.
S:It's spontaneous... What's going on with the record?
L:Well, good question. As far as the record's concered, it's been sold. To Red Star Records who have expressed extreme intrest in us, but haven't moved their asses. So they bought our single.
S:New blood.
L:Yes. Alot of interest has come, but we get impatient. We intend to work hard enough to get something. We feel we can. It gets very tough, you know. But I have alot of optimistic hopes. 
S:So you have a job outside of the band?
L:Not at the moment. 'cause I've got school. I'm in my last year of H.S--Hi! mom. And so it gets very difficult. I'm looking for one. I need he money.
S:How do you feel when you're playing. Do you think of anything specific?
L:Yes. First of all I think about whats going on. Like I'm listening to the stuff and how and how the songs are going. And then I try and put myself in an objective place. Like, if I was out in the audience and I was listening to this song, what would I think? Would I like it? 'Cause a couple of our songs are like weird! Then of course, I think about the important people who might be out there and what their reactions are. 
S:You wamt commercial success with your music?
L:I guess it would be nice. I'm confused about that stuff, because I'm not quite sure what I want. I'm not quite sure if I want money, or if I just want fame or I just want to play rock and roll all the time--play drums. Or, just be a famous drummer.
S:Are you success oriented?
L:I always wanted to play in a band..ALways. Always wanted to play drums. I never even considered doing anything else, like singing.
    (Her sister cuts in:"Except when ys wanted to be a bassoon player...")
L:You know, school music.
S: Is it difficult being so young?
L:Yes. Yes and no. Sometimes it's fun lens are we're young and I guess a litte naive. We feel separated from
the musicians who are 24, 25---who've been playing a long time. The Erasers are all 27, 28--old age land (Laughter) We still get the look ike we're little kids having fun, who are pretty accomplished for our age. But there'r still seperations. (To Jimmy) Well..you're old!!
JD:Yeah, but I've made it already.
L:I just come up with a good title for a song and write from that. "THe Quake" was written from a personal experience becuase I go to a Quaker school and I was kicked out.
S:Why?
L:Because I was living alone last year without my parents and they didn't like it. I was living with my bass player, and The Blessed, and half of New York rock was in my apartment. So it was a crazy lifestyle.
S:Talk about your drumming..your style...things like that. WHat kind of kit do you want?
L:It's very hard. Maybe a Premier. Maybe a good Pearl set. I dream about having a great drum set Premier would probably be what I'd get. They're very sturdy.
One of my problems with player is that my right arm--I play alot of tight beats and it hurts when im playing. I don't get a chance to exercise it enough playing drums because I only have access to a studio once in awhile. When I play, one of my problems is to not get physically or phychologicallly upset about the pain goig through my arm. If I get upset. I start losing the beat. I start getting crazy. So one of my problems is to learn to keep calm and paced.
S:Do you do any kind of exercises?
L:Yeah. Just before I play I take the two metal practice sticks and I shake them, keeping the arm straight, as fast as I can. My tendon gets really sore, but loose. It's also a matter of playing correctly and it can hurt and I start using my arm. One ting I do is keep tha wrist really loose and keep playing with the wrist. That's the only physical problem I have with playing.
I have aninsecurity about drumming. People say, "You're really good, one of the best female drummers I've seen. But I'm not happy with myslef yet. I get very insecure about my stle.
I have a very simple and straightforward style at the moment, because I am not sure how to do other things. I don't wanna get crazy and do ten million rolls like those rock and roll drummers do. That's a waste. It's just boring.
S:Whose drumming do you like?
L:Well, Chris Frantz (T. Heads-Ed.). Right now I'm following his style which is very straightforward. There are no female drummers that I know that I like.
S:What are some of your influences?
L:Jimmy. Thank god he's in the shower. He influences me alot. I'm always around Blondies and their success. I wa-
          
CONTINUED ON PAGE 15
          
CUT US OUT
          
PAGE 7 
      