[spread text]
in the citAdission $6 All week music. Admi eeing
depending on the day. svay
anyone. It's the crodthat wit
your feelings. CB's is overrun witn
tourists cager for aglimpse of ne
wave". You can't get out of your seat
o where's the fun? Max's is better,
so where'she nound isn't as good. Th- although out it to me. Hur- ere's a coldness about red by people rah's is highly considered by people
in the city. Getting better.
Then there are the week-end clubs.. Hudd Club, Club 57, Club Hollywood... and sometimes Trax. Studio
10 is a Yippie club in the west Village. Club 57 is gaining prominen
strong shows, good atmosphere and g0- od fum. Admission is $4. One of the
places to go to places to gtthe sost highly prais- ed With acoustics rumored as being ed. designed With


bys
 the one and only Eno--it
is nev and rising fast. Set in the
Soho area it provides weekend entertsimment aimment of the most novel kind. Constant choices.
pages
in a long forgotten
The
days leaves you gasping for air. Everywhere
Village
visey wall posters. Few
print posters. New bands never
We in Seattle have relied on wall
sat wall of informa- poste not had media accе- tion. But we have not had
ptance. The price you pay ing a
provincial city...
Poster artwork runs the gamut from
imaginative to boring. Too few of the former. too much of the latter.
Osinions are worn on lapels in this Opinions are worn osthe ake city. Store bought, profuse. Why make
them when you can buy them? The starkest difference here is the acceptibility of new wave.
You can hang out in the East Villa- ge:Manic Panic (and talk to Snooky)..
Trash & Vaudeville, Defiant Pose...Or
to the West Village and the Bowery- Next Empire and Revenge. Bookstores..
Record stores-the best being Village
Oldies, where you can hear reggae on the radio, and any band you care to
on the stereo. Even clothing if youre just in from the 'burbe....
Visit Punk Mag or the Rocker. Find
boo
full
A decent selection of local fanzines (besides the big two). (hesides the big two). Either too
eclectic, or too "in scene". The best
are "Beat It" and "No"-the latter being crammed with the impact of eight
million images, impact, writing and ?
Find it. Lesser interesting ones, incFind it. Lesser interesting ones i
lude: the in-joke "Skull Damage" for
affecionados exclusively; "Smegma
xerox and fun, and "2+2- 3 or 4 or 5
or 6 or 7 or 8 or 9"-done by Susan
Springfield ofof the Erasers. As bori
ng as her band and as trite.
Everyone wears black leather. Youre
either punk or pop. Take it as you
like. Lots of clothes for the clothes
conscious. Lots of celebrities.
Like most towns the people are split. A and B lists of bands depend on
who you're talking to, Too many imitstione:of te Heade of
ations:of Patti, of the Heads, of our
boys from OH1O. Some are fun. The audiences are made up of old-timers,
those who are or have been in bands.A
few wide-eyed kids fieen in
vide-eyed kids figuring
stumbled onto something BIG. Then thsing vinyl. It helрв
(the
the rack B00
up-ED.) People from
ds will produce never ban
pressiv
There is a third generation ga
the club scene.
strength in the ci
have watched the older on
are now attempting to
pitfalls. Knowledge is pass
sions continue atinue to expand. Yomgn j
ople on the way up...
Commercially New York is
Witness the strength of B1
ryone's role model. But equally a
atrong is the kmowledge of ta
ision and desire for money.
cians continue to be acceseth
running into one can brig
contact with another.
ork, once the prog
radio stations has for the s
e disco pool.
is now MOR. WNEW-FM, WNEW- the first
new wave a listen (because ofv