[spread text]

STELAZINE P. 6
-----------------------------------------------------

New York, New York,......n.y. A city tingling in the cold. This city
never sticks. Winds creating a tunnel underneath the skyscrapers. At
times is hurts to breathe.
Watching Japanese television. Comedy shows from Japan Everything
with a wash of rice paper. Colors:from red to green:yellows into blue.
Calligraphy in sound and motion. Asian faces. Strange language. Who
knows what they are saying? Is this Tokyo? 
Frantic humor/split images. Mass produced faces we can laugh at It
all comes back to me.........
Late night blue television. Tuning in for a quick fuck on the motor-
cycle.
We stay across from the Chelsea Hotel, in a loft with a great view of 
watertowers. Fire escapes zig-zagging across the landscape.
I see the city through vertical lines. Cold metal slashing through 
the cityscape. And people. Crazies in the all-night Have-a-Donut. Shop-
ping bags and twilight chatter. Sirens cutting holes in my brain.
A city always on the move. So many people you want to scream at times.
Prality comes in flashcubes of consciousness. You couldn't hold your 
breath if you tried.......
Whispers drill holes in the midnight air. Peopke in doorways eager
to talk. New York is the only place in the world were you can fall in 
love with mannequins, he said.
Invisible people crowd corners. Datapanik in the year sero......
Subway stations deserted, like empty cages in a long forgotten zoo. The
crush of bodies during the days leaves you gasping for air. Everywhere 
is the grasp for air....
This is what we saw.

There are three established clubs 
in the city:CBGB's, Max's, and Hurrah 
All week music. Adission is $4 to $6 
depending on the day. Count on seeing 
anyone. It's the crowd that can sway
your feelings. CB's is overrun with
tourists eager for a glimpse of "new
wave". You can't get out of your seat
so where's the fun? Max's is better,
although the sound isn't as good. Th- 
ere's a coldness about it to me. Hur-
rah's is highly considered by people
in the city. Getting better.
Then there are the week-end clubs...
Mudd Club, Club 57, Club Hollywood...
Studio 10 and sometimes Trax. Studio
10 is a Yippie club in the west Vill-
age. Club 57 is gaining prominence---
strong shows, good atmosphere and go-
od fun. Admission is $4. One of the
places to go to.
Mudd Club is the most highly prais-
ed. With acoustics rumored as being
designed by the one and only Eno--- it
is new and rising fast. Set in the
Soho area it provides weekend entert-
ainment of the most novel kind. Cons-
tant choices.

Clubs advertize in the newspapers:
Village Voice and Shoh Weekly. Other-
wise you see wall posters. few bands
print posters. New bands never do.
We in Seattle have relied on wall
posters like a great wall of informa¬
tion. But we have not had media acce-
ptance. The price you pay for being a
provincial city...
Poster artwork runs the gamut from
imaginative to boring. Too few of the
former, too much of the latter.
Opinions are worn on lapels in this
city. Store bought, profuse. Why make
them when you can buy them? The star-
kest difference here is the accepti-
bility of new wave.
You can hang out in the East Villa-
ge: Manic Panic (and talk to Snooky)..
Trash & Vaudeville, Defiant pose... Or
to the West Village and the Bowery¬
Next Empire and Revenge, Bookstores..
Record stores—the best being Village
Oldies, where you can hear reggae on
the radio, and any band you care to
on the stereo. Even clothing if you're
just in from the 'burbs....
Viait Punk Mag or the Rocker. Find 

book stores full of fanzines. It's all
here.
A decent selection of local fanzin-
es (besides the big two). Esther too
eclectic, or too "in scene". The best
are "Beat It" and "No"-the latter be
ing crammed with the impact of eight
million images, impact, writing and ?
Find it. Lesser interesting ones inc-
lude: the in-joke "Skull Damage" for
affecionados exclusively; "Smegma'--
xerox and fun, and "2+2= 3 or 4 or 5
or 6 or 7 or 8 or 9" -done by Susan
Springfield of the Erasers. As bori-
ing as her band and as trite.
Everyone wears black leather. Youre
either punk or pop. Take it as you
like. Lots of clothes for the clothes
conscious. Lots of celebrities.
Like most towns the people are spl-
it. A and B lists of bands depend on
who you're talking to. Too many imit-
ations: of Patti, of the Heads, of our
boys from OHIO. Some are fun. The au-
diences are made up of old-timers,
those who are or have been in bands. A
few wide-eyed kids figuring they've
stumbled onto something BIG. Then th-

ere are the tourists. 
Lots of bands are working on relea
sing vinyl It helps the CB's ()()
out albums (the next one should be on 
the racks soon, and is worth picking 
up-ED.) People from established ban-
ds will produce newer bands. It's im-
pressive.
There is a third generation gaining 
strength in the club scene. Bands ()()
have watched the older ones form and 
are now attempting to avoid the same 
pitfalls. Knowledge is passed on. Vi-
sions continue to expand. Younger pe-
ople on the way up.....
Commercially New York is a ()()
Witness the strength of Blondie, eve-
ryone's role model. But equally as
strong is the knowledge of their dec-
ision and desire for money. The musi-
cians continue to be accessable, ()()
running into one can bring you ()()
contact with another.
New York, once the progeniter of 
radio stations has for the most part
fallen into the disco pool. ()()
is moe MOR. WNEW-FM, the first to ()()
new wave a listen (because of well ()()

CONTINUED ON PAGE 9

page 6