<!-- For The Lonesome Mermaid by Carlos Bulosan, we have decided to do a nearly diplomatic transcription, where we have only added some tags where we may want to fix typos, modernize the language, or remember key formatting for later when we mark it up in TEI. We created a key for ourselves for reasons of continuity and to make sure anyone who read it could understand it: <u> for underlined text, a statment like (smudged) or (unintelligible) is added where the original document is hard to read, <corr> is a possible correction, and <orig> is the original text from the document that would be changed. This text is already quite modern in its language so most of these changes are for what we think are typos or mistakes. The title and the page numbers, as represented by the original document, are also included here so that we can create page breaks in TEI. -->

<u>The Lonesome Mermaid</u>

	


Every once in a while the mermaid  emerged from the depths of the river when the moon was full and claimed her victims. She would appear among us  in the person of a beautiful young woman, then suddenly disappear with her  new young man. We often wondered why she always took with her the most  promising man in our town. We burned candles and chanted prayers when we  knew that the time had come when she would appear again.
But nobody actually saw her until a strange man came to live in our town. Before his appearance we only noticed a strange and beautiful woman in our  religious processions, then the next day a promising young man with some beauty would disappear forever. But the strange man who came to live in our town  finally gave us the reality of the mermaid’s existence and her traffic with  promising young men.
At first the men did not pay any particular attention to the stranger, because he was always sitting under a mangotree in the yard. He was always  playing a homemade guitar. But the women looked out of their windows and  sighed with sympathy, because they thought the man was merely waiting for  the hour of death. As the years went by, however, the townspeople began to  forget him.
Then on evening toward the end of November, when we were harvesting the highland rice in the south and or our field, the people began talking  ominously about the mermaid. Then my uncle came running with the starling  news that she would soon appear to claim her next victim.
“And this time, brother,” he vehemently to my father, “her victim is the stranger!”
“How do you know?” Father asked.

(end of page 1)
-2-

“The stranger himself said so,” he said. “That is why the whole town is talking now.”
“Brother,” father said quietly, as though he were humoring him, “you have been living a shady life too long. You hear fantastic things, but per-hapes it is because you have a guilty conscience.”
“Let’s run over to his house if you don’t believe me,” said my uncle.  “A big crowd is there watching him. And the mayor is asking him some strange  questions.”
“I’ve never seen a crazy man,” Father contemplated seriously. Then he  said to me. “Let’s go, son.”
We rushed to the stranger’s house. He was sitting under the mango tree  as usual, playing his homemade guitar. Then he got up and bowed courteous-ly to us.
“What can I do for you, neighbors and friends?” he asked.
The mayor extricated himself from the crowd and approached the man. “We have heard rumors about you and the mermaid that lives in the depths of the river,” he said. But when the stranger did not answer, the mayor said ang(smug)ly. “Will you deny them to these people?”
“Why should I do that?” he said. “The mermaid is in love with me, so she is coming to take me!”
The old men stood in silence, their heads bowed low. The women dropped on their knees and prayed.
The mayor became very angry. “How can you be very careless with words?” he said. “But I will forget everything if you’ll now den(smug)aywhat you have just said.(smug) in so irreverent a manner. You are a Christian, ain’t you?”
“She is in love with me, that is all,” said the stranger. “Now tell me this: is love the sole property of the human race?”
“I don’t know what you are talking about,” said the mayor. Then he said

(end of page 2) 
-3-

to the people, “This man is a heretic! Let’s hang him!”
Slowly the stranger sat down and picked up his guitar. Delicately he plucked at the strings, swaying from side to side. Then he stopped and looked at us.
“The mermaid will appear tomorrow night,” he said distinctly, and his voice echoed in the still night. “She will come for me. But you will not see her because your hearts are impure. She shows herself only to the pure of heart.”
“What are you saying?” demanded the mayor. “I wouldn’t have been elec-ted if what you are implying is true.”
“And another election is approaching,” said the stranger.
“What, What?” shouted the mayor.
“But not only that,” explained the stranger. “You will not see her be-cause your souls are corrupted. She shows herself only to the clean of soul.”
Then the mayor grabbed a piece of rope from a peasant. Father intervened.
“Wait,” Father said, taking the rope from the mayor. “Why can’t we wait until tomorrow night? We must give the man (smug)ochance to prove his contention. That is our way in these parts. Isn’t that so, Mayor?”
“All right,” said the mayor to the people. “We will give him another day. Go home and sleep.”
There was a full moon the following(smudged) night. The whole town was whisper-ing and afraid. And the little boys and girls were locked in their houses.
Out in the presidencia yard the men were preparing a stout rope when a runner came with the news that the stranger had just left his house.
“Was he trying to, escape?” asked the <orig>myaor<orig> <corr>mayor<corr>.
“He didn’t like he was in a hurry,” said the runner. “He was carrying a fishing net and a lantern.”
“Did you see in what direction was he going?” Father asked.
“He was walking toward the river,” said the runner.

(end of page 3)	
-4-

There was a deep silence for a minute. The men looked at each other for a sign of action. Then the mayor ran across the yard and jumped on his horse. And the other men followed him, riding at full speed through the silence of the night. Then I ran to my uncle’s house and woke him up. Then together we ran to the river, where the sound of agitated men pierced the dark night. “I have never seen a mermaid, nephew,” shouted my uncle. “I’m glad you woke me up. This is the night of all nights. I want you to remember it as long as you live, because you might never see another mermaid again.” “Maybe there are some mermaid running loose in the world,” I said. “I understand you could see them walking in broad daylight in the big cities.” “Those are mermaids of the land, nephew,” he said. “There are many of them. But the one we are going to see is a mermaid of the water, and it is not very often that we see them.”
“Maybe so,” I said. “I would like to see a mermaid, of the land or of the water.” “I would, too,” he said. “So let’s run like hell, nephew!” We ran like hell. We found the mayor and the other men crouching behind the tall reeds in the dry bottom of the river. The stranger was sitting at the edge of the water on the opposite side of the river. The small lantern was flickering beside him. 
But we could see him. The moon was full and bright. And the air was very still. Suddenly, he blew out the lantern and thick clouds appeared from somewhere and covered the moon. And the darkness that had descended upon the world was so thick we had to join hands in order not to get lost. And the river suddenly rose up violently, then ebbed away with a deadening roar. When the moon came out the stranger was gone. THere was only the soft noise of the receding river and the vanishing phosphorescence of the bright water. And an unidentified man conjectured about the stranger’s

-5-

disappearance. 
“Maybe he jumped in the river and couldn’t swim,” said the mayor. “Maybe he ran to the bushes on the other side of the river,” Father said. “Maybe he killed himself,” said my uncle. “Lets look for his body,” suggested the mayor. “There is no hurry,” said the runner. “He is probably dead now.” “We will look for his body tomorrow,” said the mayor. “Poor man.” No man was satisfied. But the crowd dispersed. But in the morning, the body could not be found. The mayor sent several divers to the bottom of the river, and they came up with a few bright peb-bles and edible weeds and water plants. Then there were heated arguments about the stranger’s disappearance. Some claimed that he had played a trick on us, but the others thought that he was hiding somewhere in the rice fields across the river. But we went home and forgot all about him. Then many years passed. A war broke out somewhere and took most of the young men away. And after the (unintelligible) famine devastated our town. Then a terrible plague came and destroyed almost everything alive. But a new ge-neration grew up and laughed when they were told about the stranger and the mysterious mermaid. I was already a man when the stranger appeared again. I was walking on our street when I met him by accident. And I could not believe my own eyes. He was still a man of the same uncertain age, as though I were now the older person. “Are you the stranger who was supposed to have disappeared with the mer-maid years ago?” I asked. “Yes, son,” he said. “But I don’t remember seeing you around when I was here.” “It was a long time ago,” I said. “I was only a little boy when you went away.”

-6-

“Have I been gone that long, son?” he asked. “We have no time under the river.” “Did you really go away with the mermaid?” I asked. “Yes,” he confessed. “I love her, and she loves me.” “You are a lucky man,” I said. “I wish I were you. “I’m tired of living in grass houses and working all day in the hot sun. And look how I am get-ting old, while you are still the same age as when you left, if not younger.” “That is human life,” he said. “We are born to do something, but the arrangement of things in the world compels us to do what we are not fit for. Some men are fortunate, others are not. Some become great leaders of men, others become great lovers. But there are many degrees of greatness in seeking beauty, and another greatness in knowing the truth. But the greatest greatness of all, my son, is in seeking, sharing, giving love to one who seeks it and gives it to another man as a token of living greatly and dying the same. I don’t really know where you fit in the confused scheme of things, but I guess you will find it in your time.” “I am terribly afraid of the future,” I said. “Life is a great adventure,” he said wisely. “Choose your own weapons and your own hunting ground. I guess your luck will come somewhere on the way.” “I’ll keep on hoping,” I said. “And thank you for giving me courage.” “Don’t despair, son,” he said. “It is not our doing that we are born on this troubled earth. But it is not also our undoing that we must suffer under these stars. Look now: it is not our individual lives that count in the world. It is what goodness and beauty we contribute to life itself. For my part, I have sacrificed my own life among men for a timeless one. Yet I know that it is far better to have a crowded and useful transitory life than a deathless one. Time, my son, I have seen the end of it.”

- 7- 

“I’ll remember everything,” I said. 
 “It is a timeless life,” he said dreamingly. “But I got lonesome for my guitar. I’ve asked the queen, that is the mermaid, to get it back. I’m on  my way to my house now.”
“Your house is not there any more.” I said. “It disappeared years ago.” 
“Did some man steal it?” he asked. 
“It just rotted away with the years,” I said. “You have been gone a long time. A war came and killed most of the young <orig> menbbefore<orig> <corr> men before <corr> my generation. Then a plague and a famine came after, killing the rest including my own generation. What you will see here are remnants of a one vigorous race. I don’t know what will happen to us in another generation.” 
“My heart beats for you,” he said sadly. “But I’ve got to go now. The  queen will be disappointed when she hears that my guitar is gone.” 
“I’ve a guitar,” I said. “I want to give it to you. I want you to be happy with the queen in that timeless place.”
“Thank you, son,” he said. “You are very understanding and kind. I’ve sacrificed my life for this town, but that is nothing. If I didn’t go with  the queen, she would have taken many of the young men in this town.”
“But why would she do that?” I asked.
“They wouldn't understand her,” he said, 
	“I would have understood her,” I said. 
“I’m glad we understand each other,” he said. “I might want to live on  the earth again, and you could take my place.”
I remained silent. 
“They wouldn’t have understood her,” he said again. “They are too human.” 
‘Thank you for your sacrifice,” I said. “Please give my best regards to  the queen.”
“Now, remember that mermaid are really kind and understanding,” he said. 
“They are cruel sometimes because men don’t understand them. Men of the earth

-8-

are always thinking of happiness in terms of happiness on the earth, Mer- 
maids get lonesome, too.” 
“I’ll always remember,” I said. 
“Well, goodbye,” he said. 
I watched him <orig>walked <orig>  <corr> walk <corr> straight into the water. And the day became sud- denly dark and murmurous. I heard the turbulent lashing and roaring of the water in the momentary darkness. And when the sun came out the man was gone, forever. 
And the mermaid never came out of the secret depths again. Sometimes the townspeople could hear the faraway sound of a guitar rising from the river when the moon was full in the summer sky. 
