A
SHORT HISTORY
OF
BIRDS AND BEASTS,
FOR THE
Amusement and Instruction
OF
CHILDREN.
ADORNED WITH CUTS.

LONDON:
PRINTED FOR HOULSTON AND SON,
65, Paternoster-Row;
AND AT WELLINGTON, SALOP.
Price One Penny.



FRONTISPIECE.

THE LION.

The Lion, the King of all Beasts,
How famous for Courage he !
And you, as the King of Good Boys,
To learn your Book diligent be.



A
SHORT HISTORY
OF
BIRDS & BEASTS,
FOR THE
Amusment and Instruction 
OF
CHILDREN.

Adorned with Cuts.

WELLINGTON, SALOP:
Printed by F. Houlston and Son.
Price One Penny.



QL
49
5496
1828

5
THE COCK.

THE Cock doth crow to let you know,
If you be wise, what time to rise.

There is no bird treated with so
much cruelty as the Cock; for he, poor

6
thing, (without the least offence,) is
tied to a stake, and thrown at by a set of
idle, wicked, barbarous fellows, till he
is beaten in piesces.  This is a custom
the very heathens would blush at ; and
therefore I hope you, who are a Chris-
tian, will never be guilty of any thing
so inhuman.

7
THE PARROT.

The Parrot prates he knows not
what,
For all he says is got by rote.

The Parrot is a chattering bird, he
talks a great deal, yet knows not what
he says; and is therefore not unlike
some silly boys, who prate without
thinking, and learn their lesson with-
out looking at their book.

8
THE CUCKOO.
 
The Cuckoo tells a merry tale,
Upon the hill and in the vale.

There's the pretty Cuckoo ! This
good-natured bird coes a long journey
once every year to see all his friends,
and sing them a song. And after he
hasobliged them with his company about
three months, he takes his leave, and
returns to his own country again.

9
THE COW.

Early the milkmaid to the meadow hies, And the red Cow her empty pail supplies. 
This is the good-natured Cow to which we are all so much obliged. She comes, poor thing! in the morning, and brings her udder full of milk for 


10

our breakfast, and the same at night for our supper. To her we are indebted for our custards, cheesecakes, curds, and cream, as well as for our milk, butter, and cheese.

11
THE NIGHTINGALE.

The Nightingale doth sweetly sing, To welcome in the cheerful spring.
What a pretty bird the Nightingale is! How sweetly she sings! I could wish 'twas summer all the year for the sake of her good company.

12
THE LAMB. 

The little Lamb doth skip and play, Always merry, always gay.
See the little Lamb! how innocent he looks! he never did any harm, and therefore is beloved by every body: but the fox and the wolf, who are always in mischief, are hated and despised.

13
THE LION.

The Lion ranges round the wood, And makes the lesser beasts his food: Thus tyrants on their subject prey, And rule with arbitrary sway.
Though the Lion is such a strong devouring creature, yet Daniel was thrown into a den among several of

14

them, and received no harm. For he was punished on account of his religion and virtue, he prayed unto God, and the Lord delivered him.

15
THE WHALE.

The Whale's the monarch of the main, (As is the Lion of the plain:) He keeps the lesser fish in awe, And, tyrant-like, his will's his law.
When the prophet Jonah attempted to fly over sea from the presence of the Lord, there arose a great storm, and 

16

he being cast into the deep, was swallowed by this great fish, in whose belly he repented sincerely, and prayed unto God; wherefore the Lord commanded the fish, and he swam to shore, and cast him upon dry land.
 
17
THE BUTTERFLY

The Butterfly in guady dress, The worthless coxcomb doth express, Who not regarding whence he rose, Is proud of what? —of his fine clothes. 
This gaudy Butterfly owes its being to a poor worm, and has nothing to boast of but his fine wings, which perhaps will


18

be lost the first forsty day: and then his case will be much like the cox-comb’s, who having lost his fine hat and bag wig, has nothing to support him but a head full of emptiness


19
THE CROCODILE.

The Crocodile, with water eyes, O’er man and every creature cries, Then feeds with pleasure on his prey; So hypocrites their friends betray
This terrible creature is said to weep over his prey before he dovurs it, as if he was unwilling to destroy any thing; but in truth, that whining is only to 


20

bring other creatures to see thats the matter, that Mr. Crocodile may get another snap for his belly. 


21
THE ASS.

The Ass, tho’ mean, will by his bray Oblige your horse to run away. 
Though this animal makes such a mean figure, yes Samson, with the jawbone of an Ass, slew a thousand men. But then the Lord was with him, and God Almighty can do any thing. 


22
THE ANT.

The little Ant no labour spares, Wisley preventing future cares; For ere the hoary frost comes on, Her stock’s laid up, and business done.
This little creature was a great favourite with the wise king Solomon, who much admired her industry and care-


23
fulness, and recommends her to the consideration of every idle person. 
“Arise, though sluggard, go to the Ant, consider her ways, and he wise.”

FINIS.

Houlstons, Printers.

Backmatter:
Books printed and sold by F HOULSTON & SON, 65, Paternoster-Row, London; and at WELLINGTON, SALOP. 
The HISTORY of SIR RICHARD WHITTINGTON and HIS CAT. Price Id. 
SCRIPTURE HISTORIES; frmo the Creation of the World to the Death of Jesus Christ. With a Description of St. Paul’s Cathedral, London. Prince 1d. 
WILLIAM and GEORGE. The Rich Boy and the Por Boy; or, A contended Mind is the best Feast. Price 1d. 
The WILD-BEAST SHOW. Price 1d. 
NOTHING at ALL. Price 1d. 
The FAITHFUL DOG. A Tale. Price 1d. 
GLEANINGS from NATURAL HISTORY: for the Amusement and Instruction of Youth. Price 1d. 