Transcription statement for "My Awe #8":
On the whole, we chose to represent our selection with a diplomatic transcription. Given that the zine as a format is largely visual and meant to be raw/less filtered than something published more traditionally, we chose to retain typewriter errors, misspellings, and other non-standard representations of wording and punctuation. For this transcription, we did not retain line breaks for the prose pieces, but otherwise tried to imitate formatting when possible. For the poem, we did retain line breaks as much as possible. Errors in type or handwriting are indicated with empty brackets [].

[end transcription statement]

ZERO PAGE BYVERNA
TOUCH DOWN. THE ZERO PAGE. WHAT IS GOING ON? HERE? IN TOWN? YOU TELL ME. HERE'S SOME "NEWS": BOLD[FALSE LIBERTY] NEEDS A PRACTICE PLACE, PREFERRABLY ONE THAT IS A LOW-RENT PAY-PER-HOUR. IF ANYONE KNOWS OF A PLACE THEY COULD PRACTICE, IN THE NORTHEND SEATTLE [CROSSED OUT] OR JUST SEATTLE AREA, PLEASE CONTACT ME, VERNA, AT 527-8834. ALSO, FALSE LIBERTY IS OPEN TO DOING GIGS AROUND THE STATE. PLEASE CONTACT BOLD[GREG AT 363-7485] OR MG AT THE NUMBER ABOVE[CROSSED OUT] IF YOU'RE DOING A SHOW OR KNOW SOMEONE WHO IS [CROSSED OUT]^AND NEED(S) AN INEXPENSIVE BUT EXCELLANT OPENING BAND. BOLD[FALSE LIBERTY] WILL ALSO BE TOURING THIS SUMMER. IF YOU WOULD LIKE THEM TO PLAY IN YOUR TOWN, CALL ME AT BOLD[(206)527-8834] AND WE'LL TALK, OK.? COOL. 
    BOLD[THE MELVINS'] ALBUM SHOULD BE OUT SOON, IF IT'S NOT OUT ALREADY.
    BOLD[SKIN YARD] HAS AN ALBUM OUT. MOST LOCAL STORES SHOULD HAVE IT. I KNOW FALLOUT DOES.
    BOLD[WIG OUT!] IS A HAPPENING 'ZINE PUT OUT BY THE FOLKS IN BOLD[GIRL TROUBLE]. THE ONLY PUBLICATION I KNOW THAT HAD BOLD[TEX[AMPERSAND]THEHORSEHEADS] ON ONE PAGE AND A REVIEW OF AN EARLY 70'S MOVIE, BOLD[CLEOPATRA JONES], ON ANOTHER! ALRIGHT. WELL PUT-TOGETHER AND HILARIOUS. WRITE TO: WIG OUT! PO BOX 44633 TACOMA WA 98444

[end "Zero Page"]


DENNY'S WAS CLOSED, A SAGA IN PORTLAND
by Verna D.

This is a true and actual (if not always factual) account of my experiences during the weekend of the 7 SECONDS shows,one of which I co-promoted. Some of this information is taken directly from my journal entries at that time. Other parts are embellishedjournal pieces, or taken from memory and filled in as I go now.
I decided to leave out some stuff,because it is too personal for this 'zine, or inappropriate and/or incriminating. Mostly, it is just a personal account of my thoughts at that time, which began Oct 18th, 1986, and ended Oct. 19th (or 20th,actually.). So here goes nothing:

SATURDAY, OCT. 18th, PART ONE — CARRIDE TO OLYMPIA,FROM PORTLAND.

Coffee. The initial buzz is good.My eyes are out and shining . Lucid. No towel,no shower — no dice. I feel like a scummy heap o' NO USE.NO use for me today. Hangin' around like a noose around someone's neck. I hate relying on people.I would rather rely on myself.By the same token I would rather rely on acquaintences than friends,and much better rely on total strangers. I can't get pissed at friends or acquaintences if they disappoint,because I feel bad or guilty or stupid. But strangers can fuck off if they cross me in some way,and I won't care.
This is odd man out time. Talking, acting like I know what I'm doing when in actuality, I feel completely lost inside. Acting tuff,like I'm a big shit,but I totally have no clue.None at all.Big talk but I'm scared. Feeling pretty self-righteous. This is an honest(defensive) feeling but dangerous...
Bad sleep lately.
I want to stare at the sun until I learn to see. Something like that. If I stare at the sun on Hank's back,will it have [] the same effect?(I been readin' Rollins' Hallucinations of Grandeur, on the way down here Friday, and it stuck in my haid)...
I'm bummin'. I don't know why. Not really as "up" for the show as I would like to be. At this point , I will settle for a few recognizable faces.

[indented](Stopped at a Chehalis,WA gas station/askin' directons to a skate park/I joke about the small hicktown whiteness of the place/"take a left at the crossburnin'"/[] this has me goin' even after we leave the place...) [end indent]

I'm so witty.Pass the chloroform.O.K. Carrying only one tape with me — Flipper [p's also look like long s's] BLown' Chunks . Pass the ludes.No seriously.I'm swelling up, gettin' too big for my britches.Cracks,cracks and more cracks. Mouth full of shit.Head full of shit. Riding in this car.With this girl and this guy. How do I know I can trust 'em. How do I know they won't drop me off in Chehalis? And book. Or bail.Book, that's a word [] used when I was in jr. high school, meaning leave a place. There are so many words for leaving . So many ends to a mean (a way).One mean can have a thousand ends.More than I can think about. I wouldn't write this if I weren't on the road...(on heavy drugs, haha)... when I close my eyes and let the music in it cuts deep. It hurts and feels good all at once...

[verse]
There are thousands of highways
And thousands of visions
There's more than a million veins
needing to be fed
Hungry for blood(traffic)
Dusk snuggles in and waits
For the dance of darkness to begin
The word dusk reminds me of the word dust
And dust remind s me of the underside of my shell
Which badly needs shaking out
[end verse]

(Flipper intones on the car's tape player) "WE ARE BREEDING"

Darkness coming on as tape advances to my favorite Flipper songs. "In Your Arms",followed by "Life is Cheap."
Night has left me hollow.

PART TWO — SHOW IN OLYMPIA

(Finally here. all right . Startin' to warm up a bit and get a little excited. So I go to the door ,or where they take your money,and I go, "I think I'm on the guest lis". I'm not,but they let me in anyway,because I tell them I'm promoting the Portland show. I guess that was o.k. to do...I don't know. I missed most of Danger Mouse visiting with the Yobs. I barely recognize anybody, and make lots of stupid cracks ,generally being a jerk. Out of sheer nervousness I think.Yeah. What I saw of Danger Mouse I really ,really liked. For one thing, Kurt is an awesome performer, and him and the whole band were fun to watch. I was pretty distracted, which is understandable because of lack of sleep ...Back to the journal.)

Melvins real hot tonight.Smokin' long songs sendin' shivers in me.Woa. By the stage writing. No headbangin'. Neck sore from last nightss Saccharing Trust show. Feelin' just a little bit sick. Don't know why. Just a little.

EARLY MORNING OCT. 19th.

So full of shit last night I thought I would scream. I thought someone would get wise and beat the crap out of me.

Unseen Force were good. Yobs were happening.7 Seconds were hot. Sets were too short. A guy dove off the stage and busted his head maybe. He's like , "Fuck you! I don't want to go to the hospital!" (His choice was either go with the medics or with the cop. Now which would you choose?)
Did Stan ( promoter of the show in Olympia) do okay? I wonder.

8:40 a.m. Sunday.Sleep okay.Not good yet.When will it be? I wonder. I told the bands their soundchecks were at 2 and 3,etc. Fuck is the sound []even gonna be there?That would be kind of stupid if it weren't.
This place, this place is a castle. Jeannie and Steven's place is rather the cool spot. Nice. Plushy almost.Roomy enough to hold all three bands. No,not really. Want to get to talk more with Kevin, but why?
The best stuff is what I leave out of the journal. Crap. Invited Jennifer and Kris to the show. Kris won't make it and Jennifer will forget. I feel crummy for lying to her. I lied so much last nightf. I'm just a liar. Panik was there. Good.

I look in the mirror and I hate what I see. I hate what I see ,and can almost like what I hate. I look sick,stupid,and lame.I feel strong ,absorbant,reliable, like a human tampon or paper towel. Kinda bummin'. Fuck! Why!?I feel stupid here, "turning even less than stupid..." Ahahahahahahaha.

PART THREE — THE SHOW. BEFORE AND AFTER.

( This whole thing is written from memory,because I had no time or desire to write in my journal at this time.If it seems fragmented, it is justifiably so, for this is being penned months after the fact.All right?)

The confidence of last night did not carry over to today,the stupidity did. Shouldn't I be doing cocaine or something.? I do not feel like a gonzo promoter at all, and this is a very scary,definitely destructive feeling. Steven is busy doing things, and[] I'm just sort of sitting here in this huge place, cleaning up a leftover mess because I don't know what else to do.
The Rebel Skates crew is already here,set up for the skate competition. I was worried it was gonna rain,but it's actually a pretty nice day out. There seems to b e a lot of kids for the competition, I wonder if they will all come for the show.
Off to find some food. All they had that I could afford was these greasy fries, hardly a gastronomical delight. Oh well, I need my energy, and it looks like there won't be any coke (or even Pepsi.) So, anyway, this place is pretty cool, think I'lkl l hide out in the band room for a while.
Shit! They announced [] the contest,telling the skaters they can get in for free with the $4 entry fee to the contest! Fuck, it's s'posed to be the other way around,I thought I made that clear, but oh well.Well, this is just dandy. Where is the money from the show going to come from? Fuck it all to hell.I really don't feel in control now,but Steven (co-promoter) seems to have everything pretty much taken care of.
Well, it kinda sucks that I can't go in the Monqui office ,and that they (Monqui) won't listen to me and will listen to Steven,but they don't really know me, and he works for 'em. So, I paid them (it still sucks). The guy that was supposed to clean never showed up so I just did what I could. It wasn't that gruesome. Things seem to be going wrong left and right. Everyone's late pretty much. At least the sound is here. Maybe they aren't late. The Yobs showed up early and 7 Seconds were pretty much on time, just my Seattle friends were late. Oh well,it's okay.
7 Seconds sounded great in the soundcheck. That woman doin' the sound is great. The sound here is awesome. Loud enough, vocals clear, just great! It's gonna be a good show, if everyone shows up .
Well , all the bands are here,but where are the Fallen Angels. They were supposed to be here an hour ago. Maybe they got a late start.Shit, the doors are supposed to open now. I feel like a complete jerk. My security didn't even show up. What the fuck,the show must go on without them. It's good that some Monqui people,or Steve's friends,are here (thanks Bruno, thanks Bill and others!) or I would be dead.I'm not even worried about the skate thing anymore,too busy worrying about the Fallen Angels not being here. I'm a wreck. Safe in this ticket booth I guess. There seems to be a lot of kids waitin' to get in. That's cool! I'm sellin' lots of tickets which is good, and it seems like most of the skaters are comin' in too. Great! Ah relief,the Fallen Angels got here finally. I am not mad at them, just exasperated in a way...

Well, I"m missing all the bands sittin' out here in this booth. Bruce is here to keep me company and that is great. He is the only stabilising force around me right now , and I can't say how much of a great comfort that is to me. He even bought me an ice tea! What a pal!

Looks like at this preliminary count that I'm about three hundred or more in the hole. The prospect is grim. The show's almost over and it doesn't look like there's going to be many more people showin' up. 7 Seconds is going to be on soon.Some folks comin' in are mad that it's still five dollars. It's not my fault they are late. They don't know I'm in the hole and need every cent I can get to pay everyone off...

I ran out into the room twice during 7 Seconds' set. Once for "Just One Day!" and once for "Somebody Help Me Scream". That was really fun,k intense, awesome, just lettin' loose and dancing and shouting along to those songs. It meant so much to me right then and there, moreso than at any other time that whole day. It was magic,just beautiful.

By the end of the eveningg I felt really, well, insecure. I felt that I had done all the wrong things, that the whole problem centered on what I personally fucked up. I felt bad that I couldn't pay the Yobs what I had promised them, but they were pretty good natured about it. It was fun to hang out with the bands and just listen and feel almost like we were friends, or something silly like that. There are many things I wanted to ask and say, but held back because, well, I don't really know these people, except through their music/ Sometimes I wish I could just express, without fear, what I am thinking, what I am feeling, at the exact moment I am thinking it. Perhaps I would have been better off a drunken groupie, I don't know.

PART FOUR — DENNY'S WAS CLOSED...

Dennyss was closed ! What?! Yes , that's right, three carloads of people(four carlodas?) Like, eighteen fuckin' possible customers and the damn place is closed! I am feeling so strange ,so , just like I'm in a dream or a bad new wave movie.We all want to go congregate somewhere , so , oh, let's just go on the highway and head south. I'm hoping we don't end up in Salem.

We all come to rest at Bob's Big Boy,in Wilsonville,OR.Not a big town. The poor waitress. All of a sudden ,here's thes e people, not g quite what they expected I'll bet. These scraggley, hardcore,not-so-hardcore, not-so-scraggly, pretty boisterous, group of folks. Oh, okay. She handled it pretty well and the scarier people were served by the manager! These kids were mighty hungry. Obligatory Yobs/7Seconds food fight,stolen silverware(okay,so I was feeling desperate!). Lucky for the Bob's Big Boy crew we didn't stay very long.

Obligatory Yobs sendoff/goodbye after the Bob's destruction and thievery. Hugs and kissies and off we all go into the wild night... (And my prose falls apart). WE get in our respective vehicles and mosey on down the highway, Yobs on their way home, and the rest of back to Steve and Jeanniess for rest and chatter.then , sleep.
(end of memory-writing,back to journal)

[handwritten]10/19/86 [end handwritten]
I lost my shirt,and my pants and my shoes and socks. Itcs hard to let it all sink in.I don't like people much right now.But then I'm sure they like me even less. It's here that my writing falls apart.I'm hittin' the burnin' stuff(vodka) and feel like I don't know who I am really.I never have.Don't know if I ever will.Should I leave.(over at Jeannie and Steven's house/feeling uncomfortable)I kinda want to. The reading tomorrow should be real good,leaving me emptier than ever. I sort of understand,but I don't know. Who do I have to talkk to?No one really knows what's going on inside my head.No one wants to. I know I don't. Lucidity is a lie. I'm susceptible.Hurtin' Haha. O.k., now wait a minute there.Hold on a second.Feeling divorced.Alienated.

10:58 A.M. 10/20/86

Early morning smog walk to Quality Pies was good. The smog is rich.I like it because it allows me to hide.I especially dug it [] last night. So (around 5 a.m.) I'm in the Q.P. and order a baked potato.I attempt to anyway, but my voice is gone, so the order is a faint whisper, right. So, I'm writing theis letter to Kevin,which became dotted with butter,thinking suicidal as I write,no,but he doesn't need to hear my ramblings at a late nite/all nite diner,foggy from lack of sleep... Augghhh! Had to bail from this house. Nothing to lose.

COUCH PARK

I'm ugly today.Good.Will keep the assholes away.(?) When will I come to an understanding. When will they come to an understanding of me?Never.
Beautiful day out.Children yelling their guts out at Couch Park.The fall leaves remind me of what is right with the world . The smell of their decay fills the air. That smell specific to Autumn. A smell I'm very fond of.

[end "Denny's Was Closed"]


Creeping Orwellionism
by Randy Strickfaden

	So, you want uh job here do ya, security and steady pay, and mabe even uh chance to move up, well then peon piss in this cup! And if your urine's clean then we just might hire you, and use ya 'till the job is through. We'll work you like uh whore until we don't need ya anymore; then, we'll dump ya back with all the rest of the applicant junkies who failed our tinkle test.
	Yep, they got it in for all the dopers now, and there's all kinds of brand new witch-hunts. With here, their scapegoat reason is having to do with job performance. Where over the weekend, huh! in your free time, you break the law by smokin' your J with the drapes pulled shut to keep from gettin' busted, and show up for work next Monday mornin' refreshed, well rested, and attitude adjusted. While your law-abiding co-worker shows up with an aching head, swollen face, incoherent still with every crooked step uh stagger, trip, and toddle after spending their whole weekend nippin' from uh bottle.
	Yet, the test results show that your the one that has to go. Your drug of choice is not approved by law ya know. And it renders you unfit for work, while that other drunken jerk, with his blood- shot eyes and big red snout, passes the test with flying colors no matter how much stale booze he excretes out.
	Oh yes, and with this drug, sniff sniff, there can be no casual use. Once you've done it your hooked for good and destined to uh life of abuse. And Uncle Same has waged his war patrolling every border and every shore, moving his troops through every town to combat the home grown dope, crack, and heroin brown. You know, you hear about it all on the news. Ironic as hell now they tolerate cigarettes and booze. In fact, your tax dollars have even helped subsidize that little enterprize.
	If people choose to be dumb instead of think by wasting their livers with too much drink then I say leave um alone and let um go. Let um fry their lungs smokin' tobacco. Let um get stones to the bone and relieve their stress; give um the freedom of choice to make their lives uh mess. Let um eat all the psychedelics they want and blow their minds even worse, so they may attain an even grander misinterpretation of the universe. Let um rot their nerves by firin' smack, and pack their noses 'till they all have uh heart attack.
	Because, to some extent people will always use this stuff, so why waste more of out money in gettin' tough. I suppose to impress the redneck voters and cash in on some power and glory. Now if someone shows up for work buzzed out of their head, well I agree, that's uh different story. But they shouldn't be persecuted for what they used on their day off whatever its kind, and is now in their bodily waste and no longer in any way affecting their state of mind.
	And it has recently been suggested that all dope peddlers who get arrested if found guilty should be sentenced to death thinking this way that they all shall soon breathe their last breath. Well yee ha! let's whip out thee ol' hangin' rope for everyone caught sellin' dope. And even though it doesn't serve to really deter crime, it will still satisfy the citizen for the time; the innocent victims demanding justice through more gore. Gas um, fry um, hang um, shoot um, give um what they hunger for.
	Oh yes, we sure got ourselves something worse than big brother, much more old schooled, fashioned, and primal in thought it is none other than not one but a whole coalition of big bad grandads. Who with regard to the issue of civil liberty are creating quite an upheaval as they crack their whip attempting to impose their censor- ship so we don't see and speak and hear no evil. And by them doing this, these demagogies, these greedy hogs, these savage dogs with the
flesh of Latin America hanging from their carnivorous tooth, they conveniently close down the peaceful venues of their opposition used by those who care and speak the truth.
	And they want to get all the smut and naked bare fannies away from the children, and the God-fearin' great grannies. In fact they say, that nowhere at all should this stuff be within a trule wholesome society. They wanna get all the dirt of the t.v., radio, records, and yes, even home video tape. After all, the theologian general has now determined that the 1st amendment causes people to murder and rape. And as well I say, from the standard norm not too far should you rome, 'cause these autocratic snotties are even tryin' to tell consenting adults what they can and can't do with their own bodies in the privacy of their home. They go for yer standard missionary position between man and wife shackled by god & state 'till death do them part. This is the secual interplay which they grant as being OK. As for any other, well, the morally almighty have rated X, so as to stop for good any other form of innovative sex.
	Yea, they're passing new laws everyday, and there's little we can do. Laws which by their design serve to intrude upon and entrap you. But I guess we shouldn't worry, because, any major cases, according to due process, they will formally list um, and they may be brought before the newly remodeled, narrow-minded, ultraconservative, religion bound, supreme court legal justice system.
	I myself am really worried about our lady lib. I don't want to see her boasted pride transformed into uh fib. And even  though her outside they have recently seen fit to overhaul, the ol' gal on the inside might not be standing quite as tall. Her true symbolism seems to be fading, and who knows, may even soon be gone. And then alls we've got us is just another paradoxical icon.
	And on the subject of terrorism, out brilliant leaders, who are the ones that I say belong in jail, counteract by committing it themselves, but only on a bigger scale. And they claim this is done in self-defense, and so as to give the U.S. the upper hand; committing the same crime as them saying it's the only language they understand. They bomb the innocent people of some country whos tyrant leader doesn't seem to in the water have both of his oars, and who also, []ust our own, sponsors bullshit wars. Out of the bellies of their jets they let the bombs fall upon civilian folk who are as well burdened with great social ills that are potentially common to us all. They bomb um while they barter in the street, and how the ground beneath their bare feet. They bomb a nation of people whos beliefs, culture, and value of life is far different than our own. A group, who to keep from adding fuel to an already burning fire we should of course protect ourselves from, but then best leave alone. They bomb this group of people whom for so long have not had the chance to live conceptually, nor any other way free, for hundreds of years governed by coercive rule which has served to form their warped mentality. And it's just this sort of thing that's got me so uptight, for concern that in becoming this way too my own country just might. Our leaders bomb and bomb yet against this wave of terrorism they fail to stop, slow down, curtail, or even barely nudge it. I think it's all just another way they can try to justify their outrageous defense budget.
	And they, who claimed to be so concerned about balancing the budget, and the out of control government spending. Well, judging from their own hypocritical record of the sincerity of their concern I think they should have uh hard time defending. Yet, the voting public who took their bate have still seen their deficit grow, but only at uh faster rate. And further I note, the publics' revenue they have stole away from me and you, and used it for their own pet projects which, believe me, don't do us any good, and have ignored their true responsibility of office, whereas, otherwise it MIGHT have been used as it should.
	When it comes to representing the people, I ask: is this present leadership our best choice? Does it really represent the peoples' voice? With these now who hold the power are we better set? or are those who call the "do-gooders" the lesser of two evils, and really our best bet? Those who will respect a person's right to be free, and live uh life of quality. Those who will when they preach truly teach the significance of both liberty and equality. And concerning these two topics, will not only expound of them in their speech, but really work hard also in the name of each. Those who with out precious environment will protect from further damage, and be ethical at using their know-how to responsibly manage. Those who will adequately defend the nation's ground while will still work to make relations between us and other countys not as tense, and who to their defense contractor buddies wont be throwing the money all around at the taxpayers' expense. Those who will not lie, but instead address the true issues of out time; the ones of the most relevance. Those who are, oh yea sure full of love, peace, and vision, but much more so than that capability and intelligence. Those who use diplomacy, negotiation, and cooperation as their tools when amongst ourselves or with others we get into uh fix, and will do their damnedest to keep us out of any violent conflicts. Those who with out world neighbors--the citizens of other states--will not intervene in what is really their affair for not the slightest length of duration, and will instead respect these peoples' sovereign right to self-determination. Those who through some half-assed mediocre way will at least use our money in an attempt to do good deeds by supporting programs for
society; things that everybody needs. Instead of for some nuclear reactor where we the people are in no way the real benefactor, or for increasing the chances of annihilation everywhere so that everything may soon be gone, they will funnel the bucks toward desperately needed education, healthcare, and so on.
	Yep, if we're ever fortunate enough to once again get those "do-gooders" back, of course we should feel beter for the time while our itch is gettin' scratched, but we shouldn't feel so damned good that we start countin' out chickens before they are actually hatched. For then will not be the time to forget, relax, and concern ourselves once again with only havin' fun, for then will be the time to get some change for the better kind of work once and for all done. Perhaps we can revise the system in a way which will make out democrac[y] more foolproof, and will serve to eliminate the financial support from greedy slobs backing any ol' incompetent goof. I say create a political process which is bound by a code of ethics, and discipline to be enforced by a constitutional mandate. And for the purpose of insuring capability, set intellectual prerequisites for every candidate. Let's revise out democracy in a way where we all can be glad. Once changed for the better so as to protect us from any big brother whom would run for office wishing to do bad.
	But for now it looks like we're stuck with this one, and it offers us few preventions that those with bad intentions will not ascent to the seats of power so that in them we the people have sit "creeping Orwellions" who for me and you care not one single bit, and are themselves for this job not at all fit.
	And what's the result for all of us? What is our reward? Well let's celebrate, time to pour the champagne, just like the president promised throughout his campaign we get ta see um bring America back, but never move 'er forward.

[end "Creeping Orwellianism"]


Members of radical organization
chant anti-U.S. slogans
and burn a mock American flag

01 Gory

_[S]ee ol gory waving high, 
_[I]n uh sun tanned land against blue sky.
_(T)hree colors, stars, and stripes no more, 
to honor the heroes who die in war.
Dust to dust, ashes to ashes, and some mumbo jumbo 
about the lord. 
If you ask me, uh mighty piss-poor sorta reward. 

Mt. RushNomore to have got nowhere, 
at so their stone faces stare.
Plastic surgeons rush to rescue lady lib.
The botto[m]'s breakin' out of this crib.

One nation under uh thousand competitive gods in confliction, 
with their will to power being the cause of our affliction. 
And of course it's all just uh lotta baloney, but see um
there at the ceremony- shake hands with one another,
pretending to be uh patriotic brother.

Meanwhile, here is me in this rich country 
with an ocean on each side.
Here is me in this rich country 
left with little pride. 
And on either side of all that water,
I know, I know, there's nothing any hotter.
This here lands the best there is no matter where ya go.
This here lands the best there is, I guess that's what
depresses me so.

You see, along the way ol gorys been stained by the certain
things it did, and instead of facing up it only ran and 
hid.
You see, right now ol gorys being stained by the certain 
things it does, it's being brought back to the way of 
which it was.

01 gorys getting stained as it moves backward in its track. 
01 gorys becoming so stained its turning black.

But will it ever do the certain things it needs to, 
the opposite of what it has, so as, to wipe it all
clean? Just to stop is not enough. But will it 
ever do what it needs to re[m]ains to be seen. 

Randy Strickfaden
Bruce Storm
1985

Coming home: a final salute for slain Navy hostage